## First steps with GIT

We use the dash dash global flag to state that we want to set this value for all git repositories that we'd use

```
git config --global user.email "me@example.com"
git config --global user.name "my name"
```

```
cd project-folder
git init
touch file1
git add file1
git commit -am "new file"
git status
git config -l
git log
```

### Staging area (index)

The Staging area which is also known as the index is a file maintained by Git that contains all of the information about what files and changes are going to go into your next command.

### Tracking Files

Each track file can be in one of three main states, **modified**, **staged** or **committed**.

- If a file is in the **modified** state, it means that we've made changes to it that we haven't committed yet. The changes could be adding, modifying or deleting the contents of the file. Git notices anytime we modify our files. But won't store any changes until we add them to the staging area.
- the next step is to **stage** those changes. When we do this, our modified files become stage files. In other words, the changes to those files are ready to be committed to the project. All files that are staged will be part of the next snapshot we take. And finally, when a file gets committed, the changes made to it are safely stored in a snapshot in the Git directory. This means that typically a file tracked by Git, will first be modified when we change it in any way. Then it becomes staged when we mark those changes for tracking.
- finally it will get **committed** when we store those changes in the VCS.

## Initial Git Cheat Sheet

Check out the following links for more information:

The Linux kernel documentation itself, as well as impassioned opinions from other developers. 

You can check out ["Setting your email in Git"](https://docs.github.com/en/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-user-account/setting-your-commit-email-address) and ["Keeping your email address private"](https://docs.github.com/en/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-user-account/setting-your-commit-email-address) on the GitHub help site for how to do this. 